deegree-ogcapi-documentation/src/main/asciidoc/help.adoc, before:

== Help

This section show how to get help in case of problems.

=== Known Issues

* Mixing legacy service configuration with OGC API configuration is currently not supported by deegree OAF webapp.

* Startup time of deegree OAF webapp may increase noticeably when the deegree workspace contains many resources (e.g. more than 100 files).

* Using the browser's back button when navigating the HTML view may result in empty pages or switch to Json encoding. Affected browsers: Google Chrome, Chromium.

=== Support

Professional support is provided by deegree enterprise team. Contact support@deegree-enterprise.de in case of any inquiry.

=== FAQ
[qanda]
How to update the _bbox_cache.properties_?::
  Use REST-API operation `/config/update/bboxcache` to recalculates the bounding boxes of the feature stores. See section <<config_restapi>> for more information how to use the REST-API.

How to migrate an existing deegree workspace?::

  Given that an existing deegree workspace contains at least one feature store the following steps need to be done to provide the data via deegree OAF:

- Add a dataset configuration file in subdirectory _ogcapi/_, e.g. _streets.xml_ as described in the example workspace in chapter <<config_dataset>>
- Configure the HTML encoding by adding a file in subdirectory _html/_ (optional), e.g. _streetsview.xml_ as described in the example workspace in chapter <<config_htmlview>>

How to use the same workspace with deegree OAF and deegree webservices?::
  Deploy both webapps for deegree OAF and deegree webservices configured to use the same workspace called _ogcapi-workspace_. Use the file _webapps.properties_ to configure this. Keep in mind that deegree OAF will provide the OGC API - Features and deegree webservices will provide only the legacy service implementations. You may see warnings in the logging messages for both instances that configuration files have been ignored.

Commit message:

OAF-15 improved description which directories and files are new to ogcapi-workspace

deegree-ogcapi-documentation/src/main/asciidoc/help.adoc, after:

== Help

This section show how to get help in case of problems.

=== Known Issues

* Mixing legacy service configuration with OGC API configuration is currently not supported by deegree OAF webapp.

* Startup time of deegree OAF webapp may increase noticeably when the deegree workspace contains many resources (e.g. more than 100 files).

* Using the browser's back button when navigating the HTML view may result in empty pages or switch to Json encoding. Affected browsers: Google Chrome, Chromium.

=== Support

Professional support is provided by deegree enterprise team. Contact support@deegree-enterprise.de in case of any inquiry.

=== FAQ
[qanda]
How to update the _bbox_cache.properties_?::

  Use REST-API operation `/config/update/bboxcache` to recalculate the bounding boxes of the feature stores. See section <<config_restapi>> for more information how to use the REST-API.

How to migrate an existing deegree workspace?::

  Given that an existing deegree workspace contains at least one feature store the following steps need to be done to provide the data via deegree OAF:

- Copy or rename the workspace directory to *_ogcapi-workspace_* as described in chapter <<config_workspace>>
- Add a dataset configuration file in subdirectory _ogcapi/_, e.g. _streets.xml_ as described in the example workspace in chapter <<config_dataset>>
- Configure the HTML encoding by adding a file in subdirectory _html/_ (optional), e.g. _streetsview.xml_ as described in the example workspace in chapter <<config_htmlview>>
- Deploy the deegree OAF webapp as described in chapter <<installation_deploy>>

How to use the same workspace with deegree OAF and deegree webservices?::

  Deploy both webapps for deegree OAF and deegree webservices configured to use the same workspace called _ogcapi-workspace_. Use the file _webapps.properties_ to configure this. Keep in mind that deegree OAF will provide the OGC API - Features and deegree webservices will provide only the legacy service implementations. You may see warnings in the logging messages for both instances that configuration files have been ignored.
