deegree-ogcapi-documentation/src/main/asciidoc/usage.adoc, before:

== Usage

This section describes how to access the data in the different encodings and how to use the HTML encoding to browse the data.

The main entry point for deegree OAF is provided under the resource path _/datasets_.
Given that the deegree OAF webapp is deployed under the context path _/deegree-services-oaf_ the resulting example URL for a local server running on port 8080 is: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/
This resource is called the main entry page in the context of deegree OAF.

Overview of resources served by deegree OAF accessible from the main entry page:

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,10%,20%,30%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |Path |HTTP method |Supported Encodings |Description
|Datasets overview |`/` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |The overview page of all datasets available, the main entry page
|Landing page per dataset |`+/{datasetId}+` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |The API landing page per dataset
|OpenAPI specification per dataset |`+/{datasetId}/api+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |The OpenAPI 3.0 document per dataset
|Feature collections per dataset |`+/{datasetId}/collections+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |The overview page for feature collections
|===

NOTE: The context for the listed resource is _/datasets_. This resource is not defined by the OGC API - Features standard and is an implementation specific resource.

The resources listed above are available in different encodings. To request a resource in a different encoding the client shall use
either the HTTP `Accept` header or the query parameter `f` to retrieve the data in the requested media type. To retrieve the supported media types per resource use the OpenAPI document available under '/api'.

Besides the resources listed above for each dataset all resources defined by the OGC API - Features standard are supported.
The following table show the resources available per dataset:
[width="100%",cols="20%,30%,10%,20%,20%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |Path |HTTP method |Supported Encodings |Description
|Landing page |`/` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |API landing page
|OpenAPI |`/api` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |API specification document
|Conformance declaration |`/conformance` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |Declaration of conformance classes
|Feature collections |`/collections` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature collections overview
|Feature collection |`+/collections/{collectionId}+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature collection identified by {collectionId}
|Features |`+/collections/{collectionId}/items+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |List of features
|Feature |`+/collections/{collectionId}/items/{featureId}+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature identified by {featureId}
|Provider License |`/license/provider` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |Provider license
|Dataset License |`/license/dataset` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |Dataset license
|===

NOTE: The context for the listed resource is _datasets/{datasetId}_. The OGC API - Features standard defines all resources from this base resource.

[[openapi]]
=== OpenAPI

The OpenAPI page is available under the context _/api_.
If you have deployed the deegree OAF webapp under the context of _deegree-services-oaf_ and you have a dataset configured with the name
_streets_ the resulting request path would be _/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/api_.

The interface is grouped in the sections:

* Capabilities - capabilities of the datasets
* Data - access to features
* Collections - access to feature collections
* Schemas - access to schemas

.Swagger start page
[caption="Figure 1: "]
image::swagger_start.png[Swagger start page]

For all resources listed on the first three sections the following description explains how to send a request and retrieve the response in a given encoding.

[[use_request]]
=== Making a request

Use the generic OpenAPI specification HTML page to make a request.

Example request: Get Landing page in `json` encoding.

. Click on the button "GET" next to the resource _/_
. Click on the button "Try it out"
. Select the media type `application/json` from the selection list below "Responses"
. Click on the button "Execute"

.Swagger send request
[caption="Figure 2: "]
image::swagger_request.png[Swagger send request]

The page should display the server response in the selected encoding and the HTTP status code. Also the HTTP response header information
is displayed.

.Swagger response
[caption="Figure 3: "]
image::swagger_response.png[Swagger response]

[[use_response]]
=== Accessing a response

To access a response in the requested encoding directly use either the given command line tool `curl` with the given options as displayed in the OpenAPI page when sending a request described in section <<use_request>>.
Or use a browser and additional plugins to send the HTTP request directly. Use the HTTP `Accept` header or the query parameter _f_ to define the expected response format.

[width="100%",cols="30%,20%,30%,20%",options="header",]
|===
|Media type |Query parameter |`Accept` header |Description
|`application/json` | `?f=json` | `application/json`, `application/geo+json` | Json/GeoJson encoding
|`application/xml` | `?f=xml` | `application/xml`, `application/gml+xml` | XML/GML encoding
|`text/html` | - | `text/html` | HTML encoding
|===

[[json_encoding]]
=== Accessing data in Json/GeoJson

To retrieve a resource in `application/json` encoding use the request parameter _f=json_.
To retrieve the landing page of the dataset streets in `application/json` encoding use the request URL _datasets/streets/?f=json_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/?f=json
See section <<query_parameter>> for more information about supported query parameters.

[[gml_encoding]]
=== Accessing data in XML/GML

To retrieve a resource in `application/xml` encoding use the request parameter _f=xml_.
To retrieve the landing page of the dataset streets in `application/xml` encoding use the request URL _datasets/streets/?f=xml_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/?f=xml
See section <<query_parameter>> for more information about supported query parameters.

[[html_encoding]]
=== Using the HTML interface

The HTML encoding provides easy access to the spatial data using a browser.
It requires no additional client or browser plugin to browse the data. The browser sends by default
the HTTP `Accept` header with the value `text/html` and therefore each resource is returned in HTML encoding.

To browse the data open the browser and start at the main entry page available at _datasets/_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets

.Main entry page in HTML encoding
[caption="Figure 4: "]
image::datasets_entry.png[Main entry page]

Navigate to the landing page of dataset _streets_ by clicking on the link "Landing page as HTML".

.Landing page in HTML encoding
[caption="Figure 5: "]
image::datasets_landing.png[Landing page]

The landing page provides links to all resources of a dataset.

[[query_parameter]]
=== Using query parameter

The following query parameter are supported when using HTTP GET:

[width="100%",cols="30%,20%,20%,30%",options="header",]
|===
|Query parameter name |Value type |Example |Description
|`crs` |String | EPSG:4326 |EPSG code defines the CRS of the returned data
|`bbox` |Comma separated floating point values | 567190,5934330,567200,5934360 |List of comma separated floating point values defining a bounding box
|`bbox-crs` |String | EPSG:4326 |EPSG code defines the CRS of the coordinates of the `bbox` parameter
|`f` |String |`html`, `json`, `xml` |Requested encoding of a given resource
|`limit` |integer |10 |Limit the numbers of items
|`offset` |integer |0 |Start index of items
|===

NOTE: Check the OpenAPI document on which resources the listed query parameters are supported. Additional query parameters may be available depending on the resource.

Commit message:

#132 improved documentation, added link to OGC e-learning tutorial and improved usage section

deegree-ogcapi-documentation/src/main/asciidoc/usage.adoc, after:

== Usage

This section describes how to access the data in the different encodings and how to use the HTML encoding to browse the data.

The main entry point for deegree OAF is provided under the resource path _/datasets_.
Given that the deegree OAF webapp is deployed under the context path _/deegree-services-oaf_ the resulting example URL for a local server running on port 8080 is: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/
This resource is called the main entry page in the context of deegree OAF.

=== Main entry page

Overview of resources served by deegree OAF accessible from the main entry page:

[width="100%",cols="20%,20%,10%,20%,30%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |Path |HTTP method |Supported Encodings |Description
|Datasets overview |`/` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |The main entry page provides an overview of all datasets available
|Landing page per dataset |`+/{datasetId}+` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |The API landing page per dataset (see next section for further information)
|===

NOTE: The context for the listed resource is _/datasets_. This resource is not defined by the OGC API - Features standard and is an implementation specific resource.

All resources are available in different encodings. To request a resource in a different encoding the client shall use
either the HTTP `Accept` header or the query parameter `f` to retrieve the data in the requested media type. To retrieve the supported media types per resource use the OpenAPI document available under '/api'.

=== Landing page per dataset

Besides the resources listed above for each dataset all resources defined by the OGC API - Features standard are supported.
The configuration examples described in this document would result to the following addresses for each dataset. The landing page for
the dataset _trees_ would be served under the address http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/trees and the landing page for the dataset _streets_
would be served under the address http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets.
The following table show the resources available per dataset:

[width="100%",cols="20%,30%,10%,20%,20%",options="header",]
|===
|Resource |Path |HTTP method |Supported Encodings |Description
|Landing page |`/` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |Landing page is the top-level resource, which serves as an entry point per dataset
|OpenAPI |`/api` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |API specification document provides metadata about the API itself
|Conformance declaration |`/conformance` |GET |`text/html`, `application/json` |Declaration of conformance classes presents information about the functionality that is implemented by the server
|Feature collections |`/collections` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature collections overview
|Feature collection |`+/collections/{collectionId}+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature collection identified by {collectionId}
|Features |`+/collections/{collectionId}/items+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |List of features
|Feature |`+/collections/{collectionId}/items/{featureId}+` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json`, `application/xml` |Feature identified by {featureId}
|Provider License |`/license/provider` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |Provider license
|Dataset License |`/license/dataset` |GET | `text/html`, `application/json` |Dataset license
|===

NOTE: The context for the listed resource is _datasets/{datasetId}_. The OGC API - Features standard defines all resources from this base resource.

[[openapi]]
=== OpenAPI

The OpenAPI page is available under the context _/api_. The use of _/api_ on the server is optional and the API definition may be hosted on completely separate server.
If you have deployed the deegree OAF webapp under the context of _deegree-services-oaf_ and you have a dataset configured with the name
_streets_ the resulting request path would be _/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/api_.

The interface is grouped in the sections:

* Capabilities - capabilities of the datasets
* Data - access to features
* Collections - access to feature collections
* Schemas - access to schemas

.Swagger start page
[caption="Figure 1: "]
image::swagger_start.png[Swagger start page]

For all resources listed on the first three sections the following description explains how to send a request and retrieve the response in a given encoding.

[[use_request]]
=== Making a request

Use the generic OpenAPI specification HTML page to make a request.

Example request: Get Landing page in `json` encoding.

. Click on the button "GET" next to the resource _/_
. Click on the button "Try it out"
. Select the media type `application/json` from the selection list below "Responses"
. Click on the button "Execute"

.Swagger send request
[caption="Figure 2: "]
image::swagger_request.png[Swagger send request]

The page should display the server response in the selected encoding and the HTTP status code. Also the HTTP response header information
is displayed.

.Swagger response
[caption="Figure 3: "]
image::swagger_response.png[Swagger response]

[[use_response]]
=== Accessing a response

To access a response in the requested encoding directly use either the given command line tool `curl` with the given options as displayed in the OpenAPI page when sending a request described in section <<use_request>>.
Or use a browser and additional plugins to send the HTTP request directly. Use the HTTP `Accept` header or the query parameter _f_ to define the expected response format.

[width="100%",cols="30%,20%,30%,20%",options="header",]
|===
|Media type |Query parameter |`Accept` header |Description
|`application/json` | `?f=json` | `application/json`, `application/geo+json` | JSON/GeoJSON encoding
|`application/xml` | `?f=xml` | `application/xml`, `application/gml+xml` | XML/GML encoding
|`text/html` | - | `text/html` | HTML encoding
|===

[[json_encoding]]
=== Accessing data in JSON/GeoJSON

To retrieve a resource in `application/json` encoding use the request parameter _f=json_.
To retrieve the landing page of the dataset streets in `application/json` encoding use the request URL _datasets/streets/?f=json_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/?f=json
See section <<query_parameter>> for more information about supported query parameters.

[[gml_encoding]]
=== Accessing data in XML/GML

To retrieve a resource in `application/xml` encoding use the request parameter _f=xml_.
To retrieve the landing page of the dataset streets in `application/xml` encoding use the request URL _datasets/streets/?f=xml_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets/streets/?f=xml
See section <<query_parameter>> for more information about supported query parameters.

[[html_encoding]]
=== Using the HTML interface

The HTML encoding provides easy access to the spatial data using a browser.
It requires no additional client or browser plugin to browse the data. The browser sends by default
the HTTP `Accept` header with the value `text/html` and therefore each resource is returned in HTML encoding.

To browse the data open the browser and start at the main entry page available at _datasets/_.
Example URL: http://localhost:8080/deegree-services-oaf/datasets

.Main entry page in HTML encoding
[caption="Figure 4: "]
image::datasets_entry.png[Main entry page]

Navigate to the landing page of dataset _streets_ by clicking on the link "Landing page as HTML".

.Landing page in HTML encoding
[caption="Figure 5: "]
image::datasets_landing.png[Landing page]

The landing page provides links to all resources of a dataset.

[[query_parameter]]
=== Using query parameter

The following query parameter are supported when using HTTP GET:

[width="100%",cols="30%,20%,20%,30%",options="header",]
|===
|Query parameter name |Value type |Example |Description
|`crs` |String | EPSG:4326 |EPSG code defines the CRS of the returned data
|`bbox` |Comma separated floating point values | 567190,5934330,567200,5934360 |List of comma separated floating point values defining a bounding box
|`bbox-crs` |String | EPSG:4326 |EPSG code defines the CRS of the coordinates of the `bbox` parameter
|`f` |String |`html`, `json`, `xml` |Requested encoding of a given resource
|`limit` |integer |10 |Limit the numbers of items
|`offset` |integer |0 |Start index of items
|===

NOTE: Check the OpenAPI document on which resources the listed query parameters are supported. Additional query parameters may be available depending on the resource.
